# Whoa

@Metadata {
  @PageImage(purpose: icon, source: "blog-2020-05-28-whoa-icon", alt: "Whoa icon")
  @PageImage(purpose: card, source: "blog-2020-05-28-whoa-card", alt: "Whoa card")
  @PageKind(article)
  @PageColor(blue)
}


@Image(source: "blog-2020-05-28-whoa-hero", alt: "Whoa hero")

First impressions of Notion and its second-brain potential.

Tags: Blog

And just like that, I'm off and running. I can't remember the last time I had an experience like this. This seems like an iPhone moment. The entire Notion environment and related ecosystem is very easy to use.  I was able to import more than 11 years of memories in less than a couple of hours. I was able to start processing those memories in more dynamic ways in less than 12 hrs. The key ingredients of the second brain are here.

However, the concept behind Notion is one that I am familiar with. It looks and feels like a far off concept I once envisioned is now here. "Workstreaming" is a corporate level speak for what is more commonly known as Kanban. Coming from JPMorgan, I thought it would be cool if everyone had this. That's why my original concepts were called "wrkstrm". 

Finally, I must complain. I don't think Notion would have gotten here without React Native. Yet as a native developer, I don't like it. Every now and then I see flickering, generic transitions or some other known side effect of essentially running a web browser. I hate that. Then again, have we reached the uncanny valley of web development? Will we be there in 2 years, 5 years? At that point will native have advantages? 

Using Notion raises as many questions as it answers.
