# 13 Vs 15 Retina MacBook Pro

@Metadata {
  @PageImage(purpose: icon, source: "blog-2013-11-08-13-inch-2013-vs-15-inch-2012-rmbp-icon", alt: "13 vs 15 rMBP icon")
  @PageImage(purpose: card, source: "blog-2013-11-08-13-inch-2013-vs-15-inch-2012-rmbp-card", alt: "13 vs 15 rMBP card")
  @PageKind(article)
  @PageColor(blue)
}


@Image(source: "blog-2013-11-08-13-inch-2013-vs-15-inch-2012-rmbp-hero", alt: "13 vs 15 rMBP hero")

Choosing between portability and performance, I compare the 2013 13-inch rMBP and the discounted 2012 15-inch rMBP.

I previously posted that I returned my Late 2013 13” rMBP after I encountered the dreaded unresponsive keyboard glitch. This is a bit disingenuous because the ultimate reason I returned the notebook was to purchase a more powerful version of the same laptop after the Keyboard/Trackpad problems were confirmed to be software issues. However, when I went to look at my buying options, I discover that Apple was offering the original 2012 15” rMBP for $1600. That’s $500 off for a laptop that comes with a 1 year warranty. This post is simply to help those wondering: Should you pay $100 more for a refurbished original 15” Retina Macbook Pro vs a new Late 2013 13” MacBook Pro Retina?

If battery life and portability are important to you, then you should undoubtedly go with a new late 2013” rMBP. The MacBook Air should only be considered if you cannot spend the extra money. The combination of new technology, portability and price reduction make the new 13” rMBP an especially formidable machine. Since it’s less than 1/2 a pound heavier than the MBA but slightly smaller in proportions, I can’t see anyone making an argument that the MBA is more portable. Personally, I wanted to buy the 256 GB version with an upgraded processor. With an education discount, which is rather easy to get, the price of the laptop comes to $1490. Without the discount the price reaches $1600. Why the upgraded processor? Because my computer stuttered when I performed the initial Evernote library sync pretty badly. I didn’t get a chance to test any games with the new system, but I don’t think I would have liked the results.

Like, I said before I returned my 13” rMBP, it’s an amazing computer. The SSD reads at an amazing 750 MB/s. That’s a huge advantage for someone like me who was coming from a Late 2011 15” MBP whose HHD would top out at 120 MB/s. Also, for the 13” rMBP is 227 ppi vs the screen resolution of 220 ppi of the 15” rMBP. Although the effective desktop space is lower than the 15” version, the resolution was just right and for some odd reason very noticeable when I tried out the 15". Finally, the battery life is amazing. I was able to fly from Houston to NY and only use about 30% of my battery life. I’m used to my laptop running out of juice before I land. Using the 13” rMBP felt like what I would imagine moving from a Nissan Leaf to a Tesla Model S would feel life. No more range anxiety! If I would care deeply about portability and battery life, I would definitely go for a new 2013 Late rMBP.

However, I care about raw performance. Here are some geekBench 3 stats regarding the CPU performance. While the 13” rMBP scored a 5600, the 2012 15” rMBP scored a 9500 - about a 70% increase in performance! That doesn’t even take into account the dedicated graphics card which the 15” offers. I don’t care how advanced your “integrated graphics” are. A 1 GB DDR5 graphics card will run circles around you. I heard it’s actually better to hook up a second 1080p display to play video games on this machine and I definitely plan on getting Borderlands 2 to test that out.

I don’t mind carrying a charger around. Besides, with the Mavericks battery life improvements the old 15” rMBP can last a little bit longer between charges. The only draw back this presents is how much heat the dedicated graphics card produces. I don’t understand Apple’s obsession with lowering the noise levels of their fans while at the same time increasing the temperature of their chassis. It’s mid fall in NY right now and I actually appreciate how hot this laptop runs, but I can see how this could be a serious problem when I’m vacationing mid summer in Houston. Another complaint that that I have is the physical size of the 15” rMBP. Although, it’s smaller that the non-retina version, It feels denser. The 15” rMBP feels like an iPhone 4S while the 13” rMBP feels like an iPhone 5.

Finally, the price of upgrading my technology ecosystem to the level which the late 2013 13” rMBP offers is just too much for me. First, I would have to upgrade my router. A good AC router goes for around $125. Then I would have to update my Thunderbolt drives to take advantage of the new Thunderbolt 2. I spent a good chunk of money on the WD 4TB Thunderbolt chassis which allows you to replace the HDD when they go bad. All I really need is USB 3 which the late 2012 15” rMBP offers. Finally, although the SSD speeds of the new 13” are amazing, the original 15” rMBP offers 450 MB/s speeds. Those are amazing speeds (However, I do hear that the new 15” rMBP offers over 1 GB/s speeds, so I guess everything is relative).

I hope this helps.
